Welcome!
Here are a few highlights
of this month’s program.
During the COVID-19 pandemic,
some of Jehovah’s people suffered
heartbreaking losses.
We’ll see how
Jehovah’s love triumphed over tragedy.
We cherish the rich diversity
of our global brotherhood.
But could our local culture
somehow influence our thinking
and undermine our precious unity?
And our new music video reminds us that unity
not only makes us joyful
but it makes us strong.
This is JW Broadcasting® for May 2022!
The theme of this year’s regional convention
is “Pursue Peace!”
Here’s a preview of the program.
Peace is often defined
as the absence of conflict.
But peace involves much more.
The truth is, we each face trials
that can rob us of peace:
illness,
economic problems,
our own weaknesses,
damaged relationships.
What threatens your peace?
At the 2022 “Pursue Peace”!
Convention of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
you will discover how you can find
real, lasting peace in your life right now!
Our convention theme is so timely.
The world is full of conflict and anguish.
People long for peace,
and they long for unity,
which is the focus of this month’s broadcast.
Our theme is
“Stand Together as One United People.”
Let me begin with a question:
Where do you keep your wallet?
If you’re out in public,
you brothers likely keep it
in your pocket (maybe a front pocket)
so that it doesn’t get lost or stolen.
You sisters might carry your wallet
in a purse, or handbag,
which you keep close by your side.
You guard your wallet
because you know that if you get careless,
a thief might steal it
and you might never see
your wallet or its contents again.
It is similar with the precious unity
we enjoy as Jehovah’s people.
We need to guard it and protect it,
or else someone might steal it.
Make no mistake,
the Devil is looking for an opportunity
to steal our unity from us.
Think about how unique our unity is.
Unlike other religious organizations,
we’re not divided into subdenominations.
We don’t have Northern Jehovah’s Witnesses,
Orthodox Jehovah’s Witnesses,
or Reformed Jehovah’s Witnesses.
As the apostle Paul expressed it,
we are “united in the same mind
and in the same line of thought.”
We are also united internationally.
We don’t fight against one another
in the wars that divide nations.
And we are united racially.
Many times, Witnesses have risked their lives
to protect their fellow Christians
of another race who were being threatened
or persecuted
because of their racial or ethnic background.
We are also united in our purpose.
For example, no matter where we live,
we all preach the same good news
and we all receive
the same weekly spiritual instruction.
Can you find this unity out in the world?
Look around.
People are divided.
Nations attack each other.
And within nations,
political parties fight one another.
Corporations compete with
and destroy each other,
and citizens commit racially
or ethnically motivated hate crimes
against each other.
What a contrast that is
with Jehovah’s worshippers!
We stand together
as one united people.
Why, though, do we each need to guard
and protect our unity?
Can’t we safely assume
that Jehovah will protect it
and that he will see to it
that our unity is preserved?
Not entirely.
Guarding the unity of God’s people
is a responsibility
that Jehovah has given each one of us.
We must do our part to ensure
that we stand together as one united people.
What will happen if we don’t?
Divisions will occur among us
—divisions that resemble
what we see in the world.
It happened
in the first-century congregation in Corinth.
To them, Paul wrote
at 1 Corinthians 1:11:
“There are dissensions among you.”
What kind of “dissensions”?
Some said, ‘I belong to Peter’;
others said, ‘I belong to Paul’;
and still others said, ‘I belong to Apollos.’
Paul felt compelled to ask
at 1 Corinthians 1:13:
“Is the Christ divided?”
What a reproach on Jehovah’s name
and on true worship!
By failing to guard their unity,
those early disciples
were making Christianity
look like just another religion.
Could something like that
happen in a congregation today?
It could happen
if individuals cared more
about their own personal preferences,
conveniences, and opinions
than they do about the unity
of Jehovah’s people.
Selfishness is not
“the fruitage of [Jehovah’s] spirit.”
Rather, it reflects
“the spirit of the world.”
The world is aggressively promoting the view
that you should put yourself first,
but we have learned Jehovah’s view.
First Corinthians 10:24 tells us
to “keep seeking,
“not [our] own advantage,
but that of the other person.”
In chapter 13, verse 5,
Paul wrote that love
“does not look for its own interests.”
And he states at Romans 15:3
that “the Christ did not please himself.”
Therefore, we cannot afford
to care more about our privileges,
our pride, or our opinions
than we do about Christian unity.
If we put our own wants first,
then just like a man
who leaves his wallet out in public
for a thief to steal,
we place the congregation’s unity
in plain view for Satan to snatch.
And there is no doubt
that the Devil will seize the opportunity,
and the congregation will suffer.
We need to accept
our personal responsibility
to guard and protect our unity
not only as a congregation
but also as field service groups,
families, married couples, and friends.
So let’s now discuss four areas
where we especially need
to guard and protect our Christian unity.
The first is our response to direction
from Jehovah’s organization.
When the COVID-19 pandemic struck in 2020,
we all received direction,
including new ways to attend our meetings
and carry out our ministry
and ways to comply
with the secular authorities.
Did you disagree?
Or did you have a different idea?
If so, did you follow the direction anyway
and give it your support?
If you did,
then you contributed to our unity.
When we stand together
and unitedly follow direction
from Jehovah’s organization,
good things happen.
Like what?
Like what happened
when the first-century Christians complied
with the direction from the apostles
and older men in Jerusalem.
Acts 16:4, 5 says:
“As they traveled on through the cities,
“they would deliver to them
for observance the decrees
“that had been decided on
“by the apostles and the elders
who were in Jerusalem.
“Then, indeed,
“the congregations continued
to be made firm in the faith
and to increase in number day by day.”
Individual Christians and congregations
recognized and submitted to the authority
of the governing body at that time
—the apostles and elders
who were in Jerusalem.
Did you note the beneficial results?
“The congregations continued
to be made firm . . .
and to increase.”
And that’s what happened
when you brothers and sisters
followed the direction
regarding the COVID-19 pandemic.
We experienced significant increases
in meeting attendance.
The attendance for the 2021 Memorial
reached an all-time peak.
It is amazing
what Jehovah accomplishes
when we stand together
as one united people!
A second area in which we need
to protect our unity
is culture.
Jehovah’s organization is diverse.
We love to be introduced
to different kinds of food,
different styles of dress,
and interesting customs.
How wonderful!
But what if we started feeling that my race,
my tribe, my ethnicity,
my culture is superior?
Can you see how
that kind of thinking would divide us?
To preserve our unity, we need to focus,
not on how we are different from one another,
but how we are the same.
We are
Jehovah’s Witnesses first
—not African, Asian,
North American,
South American,
or European.
Our people
are our spiritual family
—our spiritual brothers and sisters.
Our culture is genuine Christianity.
When we are willing
to adopt Jehovah’s thinking
that we learn from his Word,
even setting aside our own
personal customs
or culture if necessary,
we stand together
as one united people.
We experience what the Bible describes
at Zephaniah 3:9:
“For then I will change the language
“of the peoples to a pure language,
“so that all of them
may call on the name of Jehovah,
to serve him shoulder to shoulder.”
How wonderful!
A third area
is personality differences.
Growing up in this divided world,
we may have absorbed
some of its sensitivities.
But Ecclesiastes 7:9 says:
“Do not be quick to take offense.”
If a fellow Christian hurts our feelings,
we have a special opportunity
and obligation
to show that we stand together
as one united people.
How can we do that?
Colossians 3:13 says:
“Continue putting up with one another
“and forgiving one another freely
“even if anyone has a cause
for complaint against another.
“Just as Jehovah freely forgave you,
you must also do the same.”
Note both phrases:
“putting up with one another
and forgiving one another.”
Some imperfections and slights are so small.
Do they really require formal forgiveness?
Because of our human imperfection,
we need to do what Paul says.
We have to learn to just put up with them.
For example, maybe a certain family
did not include us
in a gathering at their home
or a brother failed to greet us
in the Kingdom Hall
or call on us to give a comment
at the meeting.
These things may irritate us
or even hurt our feelings,
but they are not sins
that we need to forgive.
They are mere slights,
or imperfections,
that we need to learn to put up with.
On the other hand, if a fellow Christian
has actually sinned against us in some way,
giving us a genuine “cause for complaint,”
what does the scripture encourage us to do?
‘Forgive one another freely.’
That is what Jehovah does for you and for me.
Putting up with and forgiving
one another is vital
if we are to stand together
as one united people.
Our fourth area is how we respond
when our brothers are in distress.
While coping with the COVID-19 pandemic,
numerous lands were hit by other disasters
—hurricanes, volcanoes, fires.
But our brothers also experience
other forms of distress,
like the effects of old age,
the loss of a loved one in death,
chronic health problems,
and the list goes on and on.
What do Jehovah’s Witnesses do
when we see our brothers in distress?
We immediately
come to their aid.
We stand together.
In this very selfish
and divided world,
this is not a small thing.
It is not something to take for granted.
Jesus said
at John 13:34, 35
that this deep,
unselfish love in action
would identify his true disciples.
Therefore, brothers and sisters,
as we work hard to stand together
in the four areas that we have discussed,
we give powerful evidence
that we are true disciples of Christ Jesus.
Jesus knew that unity was vital.
On the night before he was put to death,
he was concerned
that his disciples would remain united.
He prayed at John chapter 17
and verses 20-22:
“I make request, not concerning these only,
“but also concerning those
putting faith in me through their word,
“so that they may all be one,
“just as you, Father, are in union with me
“and I am in union with you,
“that they also may be in union with us,
“so that the world
may believe that you sent me.
“I have given them the glory
that you have given me,
“in order that they may be one
just as we are one.”
Obviously, Jehovah answered that prayer.
He is teaching us
to stand together as one united people.
Therefore, dear brothers and sisters,
let us renew our determination
to protect our Christian unity
by following direction
from Jehovah’s organization,
by valuing Jehovah’s thinking
more than our own culture,
by putting up with
and forgiving one another freely,
and by helping one another
in times of distress.
By doing so,
we will not allow Satan
to steal our precious unity.
Instead, we will stand together
as one united people.
Without question, the COVID pandemic
has been a time of distress for everyone.
Sadly, some of our brothers and sisters
lost family members to the virus.
How could love be shown to these dear ones
in the midst of the pandemic?
We’ll see how this was accomplished
in our next video.
My husband contracted COVID-19.
He was brought to the ICU,
and two days later, he passed away.
We weren’t able to say goodbye.
We weren’t able to see each other.
We weren’t able to have
our last conversation.
My husband and I got sick
in the month of March 2020,
and then my husband fell asleep in death.
Isolation can make you depressed.
I would say that was
the worst time of my life.
My husband contracted COVID,
and he was breathing heavily.
So I called 911.
The ambulance took him,
and on the way to the hospital,
his heart stopped.
My bank account was blocked,
I had debts,
I had COVID,
and the landlord gave me
a week to leave the house.
My husband used to do everything,
and now it’s
my responsibility to be
the spiritual head of the family.
I needed help.
The elders helped me prepare
for our family worship.
That’s exactly what we needed at that moment.
There were times I felt dejected
and weak.
The sisters really helped me
by showing personal interest.
In fact, not a day went by
without them calling me.
I was feeling tired, without strength.
I felt helpless.
So the friends took care
of the entire move,
helped to clean the house,
and helped me out financially.
They were like my arms and legs.
They supported me.
I felt like my spiritual family
was carrying me in their arms.
Everything that my brothers and sisters
did for me during that difficult time
—the messages, the postcards, the flowers—
that shows me the kind of family that I have.
That’s what the kids really needed to see
—that we were not alone,
that our friends were there, even though
they couldn’t be here physically with us.
The brothers have encouraged me
in so many ways,
from letters from pioneers
spread all over Italy
to video calls, phone calls, and messages.
I realized
that there will always be someone
who Jehovah uses to comfort me.
Before, I felt weak and powerless.
Jehovah gave me strength;
he helped me by means of the brothers.
The day after my husband died, I was
so surprised when I opened the door
and our friends started singing for us.
At that moment, I realized,
‘We’re not going to be alone.
We have our spiritual family.’
I began to speak to Jehovah more intensely.
Before, I would talk to my husband
about everything.
Now I share my problems
and anxieties with Jehovah.
I’ve been keeping a little journal
of everything that Jehovah has done for us,
and I write it down
because I want to be able to tell my husband
when I see him again.
I didn’t feel alone at any time.
I felt that I belonged to a family
that was caring for me and supporting me.
I really saw Jehovah’s love
and the help he gives.
He can do anything
to help you feel better
when you are going through trials.
Seeing Jehovah’s support for me
by means of the brothers
makes me feel secure when thinking about how
he will support me in the future.
I can say that in the future,
I am absolutely certain
that Jehovah will be with me.
There’s no pandemic
and there’s no bad situation
that will prevent Jehovah
from reaching anyone
when they’re going through trials.
Our hearts go out to all
who have lost loved ones during the pandemic.
We are not shielded
from “time and unexpected events.”
But Jehovah always helps us
to endure hardship,
often through the love shown
by our brothers and sisters.
We help each other during crises.
We also show love in everyday matters,
as we’ll see in the following video.
Everything I know
about Kingdom Hall maintenance,
I learned from Brother Ho-jin Kang.
He encouraged me when I needed a little push,
taught me the right way to do things,
and continued to teach me
with kindness and love.
So when he asked to borrow a ladder,
I was happy to lend him mine.
Honey,
here are some things I need
for our lunch today with the Youngs.
Mhm.
What’s the ladder for?
Ah, Ho-jin needs it.
Ho-jin?
How’s he doing?
I heard something about a cane.
Ho-jin?
A cane?
No way!
He’s still as strong as an ox.
Maybe, but it seems like—
Well, you’ll see how he’s doing.
And don’t forget to stop at the store.
Ho-jin?
A cane?
No way.
I’m coming!
Here I come!
Oh, sorry.
It’s OK.
Is everything OK?
I just can’t dash down the stairs.
I was on my way to the store
and thought I’d drop off the ladder.
Thanks!
Just leave it by the garage.
It’s almost time for lunch.
The gutters can wait.
They’ve waited this long.
OK. Will do.
Bye.
Drive safe!
Gutters?
Hi, Honey.
OK.
But what about lunch?
The Youngs will be here in an hour.
I know.
I picked up the items you asked for,
but I can’t just leave.
It got me thinking
about the neighborly Samaritan.
When we see a need,
we can’t be like the priest and Levite
who just walked away.
The Samaritan cared enough to stop,
examine the need,
and took the time to help the poor man
—a man he didn’t even know.
. . . a man he didn’t even know.
Of course!
“Work what is good toward all,
but especially toward those
related to us in the faith.”
I love you.
And I have an idea.
Let’s not cancel with the Youngs.
I’ll go back and pick up my ladder
and tell Ho-jin
that I’ll come back Saturday afternoon
to help him clean out the gutters.
It’s such a blessing
to be able to care
for the needs of our brothers
and feel their loving care for us.
What do we learn from this dramatization?
When we think deeply
about the needs of our brothers,
we’ll find many opportunities
to show unselfish love.
In this world, people feel unloved
and isolated for many reasons.
We’ll see this in the experience
of Jeson Senajonon.
Life was simple—I remember.
I am Jeson, and I am deaf.
Growing up with this disability was hard.
When I was younger,
I saw people laughing
and families showing affection.
I just walked around the neighborhood
and observed what was going on around me.
I saw them walking and talking
and wondered what that was all about.
Everything was a mystery to me.
But one day was a little different.
I saw children my age having fun,
and they wanted me to play with them.
I said to myself: ‘Me?
I can’t believe
they actually want me to be with them.’
For once I felt welcomed,
and that was how we became
the best of friends.
Time went by so fast.
We grew up spending time
and discovering new things together.
I was having so much fun with their company
that even questionable acts
seemed right to me.
I learned how to smoke.
They taught me how to drink alcohol
to my heart’s content.
It felt like it was
the best time of our lives.
I thought everything we did
was how things were actually supposed to be.
One day in a deaf search in our area,
the Witnesses found me.
I was hesitant at first,
but they were very kind and friendly.
They educated me;
they even taught me how to sign my name.
Eventually, I studied the Bible with them.
I learned different truths from the Bible
and finally came to know Jehovah,
“the only true God.”
I learned the things Jehovah liked
and disapproved of.
Our Bible study moved me
to reexamine the life I lived.
I realized that what I did before
wasn’t pleasing to Jehovah.
My love for Jehovah grew deeper,
and I knew exactly what I wanted to do.
I started to attend Christian meetings,
and I met new friends in the congregation.
The Bible changed my life.
I gave my all to Jehovah and decided
to dedicate myself to him.
It brought me nothing but real happiness.
Now I’m in full-time service
and eagerly declaring the good news.
I was appointed
to serve as a ministerial servant
in our congregation,
and I was called to volunteer at Bethel too.
I wouldn’t have felt
genuine happiness in accomplishing
these spiritual assignments
if I wasn’t in Jehovah’s organization.
To all the deaf ones out there
that haven’t had the chance
to know Jehovah yet,
I hope and encourage you
to study the Bible with the Witnesses too.
Look at me.
Before, I wasn’t able to read and write.
I realize that even if we can’t hear,
we can still have a relationship
with the only true God.
I hope you find
the same love and joy as I did
under Jehovah’s loving hands.
Jehovah has helped me,
and for that I will always thank and love him
with all my heart.
If you are deaf and you would like
to learn more about the Bible,
we hope you are watching
a sign-language interpretation
of this program
and that you’ll accept
Jeson’s invitation to study the Bible
with Jehovah’s Witnesses.
You too can develop
an intimate relationship with God
and become part
of a loving, united family.
As we discussed earlier,
our unity can suffer
if we allow minor matters to affect us.
In our next video,
notice what we can do
to set aside such feelings
and preserve unity.
Many years ago, I started working at a firm,
and I helped a sister to get a position
at the same firm.
As time went on, I may have come
to the wrong conclusion, but I felt
that this sister wanted to be in charge.
I didn’t feel very happy about it.
A few months later,
I was retrenched from work.
I felt very hurt.
My mother always told me
to be the “lesser one”
and just to let things go.
So I kept quiet, and I left the firm.
Because of certain circumstances,
we changed congregations,
so we didn’t see each other anymore.
During those years, at the meetings
or reading the Bible,
we were regularly reminded to be forgiving.
It felt to me like a stab in my heart
because I knew we had to apply this counsel.
Being at the convention, every time,
made me a bit nervous
because I basically had to prepare myself.
Should I bump into her,
how was I going to handle it?
It did ruin the spiritual atmosphere
of the convention.
Soon after my mother passed away,
we had our regional convention.
I was very emotional.
I saw this sister standing there,
and I wondered to myself,
‘What is going to happen now?’
She came up to me;
she gave me a hug and a small present.
That particular day,
I definitely felt relieved and I felt
that I could now make peace.
If both of us had applied earlier
the advice given at Colossians 3:13
by being forgiving,
neither of us
would have had to carry
this emotional burden for so many years.
Now I am very happy to say,
Mona and I are good friends today.
We serve together in the same congregation
as elders, and the relationship
that I have today
with Luis is that we’re friends.
But when we transferred it to the workplace,
that beautiful friendship began to fade.
Well, as a builder,
I’m old-school and used to being in charge.
Perhaps I was too proud.
But somebody couldn’t come and tell me
how to do certain things.
Since I was the crew leader,
I said right from the start:
“So, what is he doing here?
Does he have any right
to an opinion about this?”
So I made sure to push
the brother aside completely.
I can remember that when I entered
the Kingdom Hall through one door
and I saw Brother Luis,
I would look
for any possible excuse to avoid him.
I wouldn’t even say hello.
Neither of us said hello.
For me, the internal battle
between the fleshly-minded person
and the spiritual person
was a very tough battle.
It was like that for several years.
And now I think, ‘I wasted time.’
Something that would have helped me
to maintain peace and unity
with my brother would have been
to be obedient to what Jehovah says,
to what the Bible says,
and to what we hear at the meetings.
Sadly, I wasn’t obedient.
The lesson that I have learned from this
is that Jehovah is always right.
In the exact moment when something happens,
we should immediately act.
Carlos Henry himself was the one
that then stopped me and told me,
“We can’t keep going on like this.”
He took a very important step
so that we could sort things out.
To be happy, you have to apply
the principles you find in God’s Word.
The words at Romans 14:19
encourage us
to “pursue the things making for peace.”
What I would’ve done differently
is that I wouldn’t have let time go by.
Instead, I should have sought out the brother
more promptly
and restored that friendship again.
Although it’s true
that you can’t recover time,
you can recover a brother.
My relationship, once again,
with Luis is that we are friends,
and he’s a true friend.
After Cecilia was “retrenched”
—that is, she lost her job—
she resented her spiritual sister for a time.
This robbed her of her peace.
Carlos and Luis also allowed
petty differences to divide them.
The lesson is clear:
“[Put] up with” and “[forgive] one another.”
We delight in the variety of cultures
represented in our brotherhood.
But as we’ll see in our next segment,
we have to be vigilant
not to put our local culture
ahead of Bible principles.
Growing up in Canada,
I had a view of what hospitality was.
Hospitality was
to have the brothers and sisters over,
get to know them, and share a meal together
—something that I planned to offer to them.
I don’t think I ever realized
how much I had been influenced
by my own culture
in defining what I thought
hospitality was.
Culture has a very big effect on us.
In our culture
young ones are not trusted very much.
They are not given responsibility.
I have seen the effect of the culture
inside the congregation,
especially when the question
of giving younger ones
more privileges of service,
or assignments, came up.
When it was discussed among the elders,
it would not really be considered.
And so the desire would be
for him to wait a little bit longer
—mature a little more
and gain more life experience.
I also thought the same way.
When I look back now,
I realize that it really wasn’t right
because Jehovah’s thinking isn’t like that.
So when I attended
the special convention in Ukraine,
my view of what hospitality was
changed completely.
We get off the plane;
all the brothers are there;
we see the love.
We’re overwhelmed by just the quantity
of brothers that are there
—their smiles, their expressions.
As the days went on,
it was clear
that they were just looking
for what we needed.
And it was more than, you know,
just giving us some food
and spending some time with us.
There were so many
other things that they did
that covered every one
of our needs
when I was not sure that their own needs
were being covered at times.
They knew they just wanted
to be there, and they’d figure out
the rest when they got there.
And that really impressed me and my wife.
I do remember one night
getting back to the hotel,
and we had a moment
to just really think
about what we’d seen that day
and started to ask ourselves
if we’d ever gone to the same extent.
Where I’m from,
we tend to stick
with what we’re very comfortable with.
I realized that I really
had unknowingly been putting limits
on hospitality
because of what I was comfortable with
—because of the culture where I grew up—
whereas the experience in Ukraine
helped me to see
that we can break
that barrier down so much faster.
We could definitely feel that this was
what Jehovah’s view of hospitality was.
It was about looking
for what others need and filling those needs.
In time, my thinking changed
because I realized Jehovah’s way of thinking.
The videos produced by Jehovah’s organization
and what I watched in them
helped my view to change.
I could actually see what a young brother
or a young elder could do.
In the past, we used to focus on experience.
I would too.
But now Jehovah’s viewpoint
is more important than just experience.
Jehovah doesn’t only focus on experience
but also on spiritual qualities.
I came to realize that.
So after we experienced
the special convention in Ukraine
and returned home,
we decided that we needed to consider
this more as a Family Worship project.
We realized we did have to make
some adjustments.
We realized we did want to do more.
So we had to set specific goals
to be able to strip away
our previous definition of hospitality
and start extending it
beyond what we were comfortable with.
It takes work
to continually break free from the limits
that we might set for ourselves.
And it was something that we realized
—we needed to make some changes
if we were going to maintain
Jehovah’s view of hospitality moving forward.
Of course, the influence
of the culture doesn’t go away overnight.
We still need to work hard on it.
We still have to change
because traces of the culture
can still be left over.
But I realized
we definitely need to get rid of it.
Now I’m really pleased
to serve with those young brothers,
to talk with them,
and to see their potential
as Jehovah sees it.
We can also see
that Jehovah is very pleased too.
Jehovah is overjoyed.
He’s proud to see
what those young brothers do.
Like our brothers in the video,
it’s good for each of us to do
a prayerful self-examination.
If we always put Bible principles
ahead of our local culture,
we strengthen our precious Christian unity.
The Internet and other technologies
allow the Governing Body
to serve the brotherhood
in ways not possible just a few years ago.
The tools may be new,
but the work is not.
In our next segment,
we’ll learn what past members
of the Governing Body did
to stay connected with
and to serve Jehovah’s people everywhere.
The Governing Body
has always felt a keen responsibility
to live up to Jesus’ command:
“Feed my lambs. . . .
Shepherd my little sheep.”
Today’s technology
makes the Governing Body feel like family.
But did the worldwide brotherhood
in times past
enjoy such a strong bond
with the Governing Body?
Let’s go back to January of 1945.
Brothers Knorr and Franz
set out on a tour of Latin America
that ended up
with conventions in North America.
It took four months.
The purpose was to visit
branches already established,
to organize new branches,
and to forward the movement
of the Kingdom preaching work.
Service tours often combined
supervising operations at a branch,
giving talks at conventions,
dedicating new facilities,
overnight visits to remote missionary homes,
followed by evening meetings
with a local congregation.
All this was packed into a few days.
They provided instruction
on the field ministry,
how to conduct meetings,
and also on what was taking place
in the worldwide field.
And then they would take time
to go out into the field ministry with them.
One such visit included
a stopover in Guatemala,
where they visited a very small congregation
of just eight people.
Their heart was in the preaching work.
I can speak from my own experience
that the missionaries
were very close to Brother Knorr’s heart.
So after sending them first to Latin America,
he was eager to see their progress.
And so he visited them.
And then, over the years,
he traveled the world
and he visited as many missionary homes
as he possibly could.
He privately met each missionary personally
to talk over their challenges,
to arrange
for better accommodations if needed,
to assess the potential for growth,
or even to establish a new branch
or arrange to purchase new property
if needed.
Brother Knorr loved the brotherhood,
especially missionaries
and branch personnel.
And he would take the opportunity
of a 15- or 20-minute stopover
in a train station or an airport
to give encouragement
or to help them
to advance the preaching work.
Brother Knorr had deep concern
for the welfare of the brothers
in the war-torn countries of Europe.
Brothers Knorr and Henschel
traveled to Britain, France,
Switzerland, Belgium,
the Netherlands, and Scandinavia
in November 1945.
Imagine, just a few months
after World War II ended,
the railroad track was destroyed
and bridges were destroyed.
So there were no good connections
between the cities.
It was not tourist travel;
it was really hard work.
But even this they did
because of loving the brothers
and helping and encouraging
the brothers in these countries.
After visiting the friends
in war-torn Europe,
then Brothers Knorr and Henschel embarked
on a very ambitious and extensive
47,000-mile (76,000 km) tour.
They visited some lands
where there were few or even no Witnesses.
If no branch operated
in a country they visited,
they connected with the local congregations
in private homes,
they attended their meetings,
and they accompanied the local publishers
to the homes of interested ones
for group meetings.
And they often rented venues
for public meetings.
Brothers Knorr and Henschel
went on the streets to advertise the talk
that evening.
And then Brother Knorr himself
even rode with bicycle parades
to advertise his talks.
And these meetings attracted
hundreds of interested ones,
even though in one city,
there was a threatening note
that was received.
Well, things don’t always turn out
as planned.
Brother Knorr and Brother Henschel
had a service tour of countries in Africa.
One of those was Nigeria,
and they were to give talks
at two conventions.
One of those conventions
was 400 miles (640 km) away
and involved a road trip.
So they got off to an early start
at 3:30 in the morning.
On into the trip,
they started to have car problems.
Those car problems
turned into a grueling 18-hour delay,
and they realized
they weren’t going to make the convention.
So they decided
to go back to the branch in Lagos.
But the return trip took 24 hours
through jungle roads
and additional car problems.
They got back to the branch,
they took a very brief rest,
and they were on to the next branch.
Brother Knorr loved the brothers,
and he enjoyed being with them.
I remember very well
how after his concluding talk,
he waved to the brothers
and we in the audience took out handkerchiefs
and waved back for many minutes.
But that was not all.
He and Brother Henschel
then went to the railroad station
to say farewell to the brothers
leaving in special trains.
They called out
“Auf Wiedersehen! Gute Reise!”
and they stayed there
till 10:30 at night doing that.
They thought not of their comfort,
but they thought of the brothers.
A request to hold a large special meeting
in Athens in 1952
was not granted by the authorities
because of religious interference.
But not wanting to miss an opportunity
to encourage the Greek brothers,
Brother Knorr came up with an alternate plan.
He and Brother Henschel would take taxis
to the homes of local brothers,
where they would give a talk
for approximately 20 minutes.
Then they would go on to another home,
even though they risked arrest
because of meeting together.
They were able to meet
with 905 of our Greek brothers.
In describing that day, Brother Knorr wrote,
“It was one of the most blessed experiences
of our lives.”
Brother Franz visited Spain many times,
but during the 1950’s,
our work was under ban.
Brother Franz wanted to encourage
the local brothers,
but he was especially concerned
for their safety.
On this one event,
Brother Franz and his driver
decided to park their car
near the home of their host,
a certain Brother Garcia, who was a mechanic.
So with the hood of the car open,
they asked a neighbor,
“Is there a mechanic in the area?”
Of course, he was referred to Brother Garcia.
Brother Garcia
then looked at the car and said,
“Your car needs to come into my shop.”
That was the opportunity
for Brother Franz to meet
some local brothers and sisters.
When it was time to walk
to the meeting later that day,
Brother Franz decided to wear the beret
and a sheepskin coat typical for the area
so that he would safely blend in
with his brothers.
Well, these brothers were
very loving and courageous men.
They worked very hard
to keep the brothers
in countries under ban fired up with zeal,
even risking their own safety.
Brother Franz actually was arrested
while meeting with the brothers
in Barcelona, Spain.
Well, these schedules that they kept
must have been exhausting.
If a country under ban was on the itinerary,
they might pay a visit
to government officials
to promote legalization of our work.
Brother Knorr visited all of the branches
to encourage the brothers,
and he talked with the missionaries.
But in the 1950’s, there was much growth,
and that proved to be too much for him alone.
So he decided that it would be appropriate
to train some of us brothers
so that we could assist in that work
and see that the shepherding was done
and that the work in the branches
was done in unity.
On the service tour of Africa in 1963,
Brother Henschel attended the convention
at Gbarnga, Liberia.
Suddenly, soldiers invaded the convention.
They arrested Brother Henschel and others.
He was mistreated
—beaten with a rifle butt to the point
where he thought he was going to die.
But he remained on the scene to encourage
and assist the brothers to be faithful,
to avoid compromise.
And when finally he was released,
instead of going home,
he completed his assignment
to visit other branches
and upon return
never acted the part of a hero or martyr.
It was just the cost
of doing the Lord’s business.
Well, the headquarters representatives
wanted the best
for delegates to a convention.
Brothers Knorr and Henschel were known
to personally inspect venues
and even negotiate contracts.
In more recent times,
Brother Jaracz personally visited hotels
to make sure that there was a proper standard
of comfort and cleanliness.
He even tested out the beds.
Brother Knorr was well-aware of the situation
that the brothers were facing
in the Soviet Union.
He wrote many letters
in which he called on the brothers
to live in harmony
under the direction of the organization.
One such letter
fell into the hands of the KGB.
They altered it.
But when Brother Knorr was told about it,
he drew the brothers’ attention
to the spirit of the letter
because from the spirit of the letter
it would be evident immediately
whether it was a letter from the organization
or a forged letter.
This is because the spirit
of the organization
serves to unite the brothers,
not divide them.
All this attention
to the international activity
was taking place
while simultaneously directing
the work and expansion at world headquarters,
handling various legal issues,
organizing and speaking at conventions
throughout the United States,
Gilead School lectures and graduations,
annual meeting programs,
and all the while taking care
of their own spiritual well-being
and that of their wife if married.
The next few decades
would see even greater growth
but also greater challenges.
What beautiful reminders
of the efforts our brothers made
to serve our spiritual family!
And there’s more to share.
In a future broadcast, we’ll recall
additional ways the Governing Body
has preserved unity.
Now it’s time for our new music video.
It highlights the many blessings of unity.
Calling out to all our brothers!
Calling out for all to hear!
We share just one faith, one God.
We’re united wherever we’re found.
Speaking the language of truth,
We join our voices with one joyful sound.
Whatever we face,
We’re not on our own.
Together
we’re never alone.
Together, united,
together we belong.
Together, united, together we are strong.
Together, united, as one we carry on.
Side by side and hand in hand,
together, together we are strong.
We’re found in all lands; it’s true.
And we know that we’re not all the same.
Diff’rent in things we may choose,
Maintaining peace for the sake of God’s name.
Wherever we go,
Our brothers are there
With love and the faith
we all share.
Together, united,
together we belong.
Together, united, together we are strong.
Together, united, as one we carry on.
Side by side and hand in hand,
together, together we are strong.
Together,
united, together.
Together, united,
together we belong.
Together, united, together we are strong.
Together, united, as one we carry on.
Side by side and hand in hand,
together, together we are strong.
Together we are strong.
This month’s program encouraged us
to “Stand Together as One United People.”
At times we may be isolated,
but with Jehovah,
we are never alone.
We learned not to allow
petty matters or cultural norms
to disrupt our unity.
By building a close relationship
with Jehovah,
Jeson became a member of a loving family.
We were encouraged to seek
opportunities to show unselfish love.
And we reflected on the many ways
the Governing Body
has worked to keep us as a united people.
In this month’s video postcard,
we go to the island
of Newfoundland in Canada.
A large island at the far eastern coast
of North America,
Newfoundland is an amazing place of unique
contrasts in weather, geography,
and natural beauty.
Sister Edith Mason brought the truth here
more than a century ago.
She was a single,
full-time minister in Nova Scotia.
In 1914, she resolved to go by herself
to preach in Newfoundland
where there were no Witnesses at that time.
After much prayer and planning,
she arranged
for the “Photo-Drama of Creation”
to be brought here in 1916.
Over 10,000 people
viewed this ground-breaking presentation.
Some of the early preaching work
was done by boat.
Over the years, the brothers used
four missionary boats
to cover over 6,400 kilometers,
or more than 4,000 miles,
of coastal territory.
After the second world war,
spiritual activity increased.
In 1945,
a branch office was established,
and the first group
of Gilead-trained missionaries arrived.
The branch office continued to operate
until 1981.
Gilead graduates Bernie and Elizabeth Mahler
were assigned to Newfoundland.
They helped establish a congregation
in Bonavista in 1952.
Today, the Bonavista Congregation has
38 publishers and 4 regular pioneers.
The need remains great in Newfoundland.
Almost 30 percent of Canada’s
unassigned territory is here.
When publishers come to help,
they enjoy Newfoundland’s
well-known, warm hospitality.
Our brothers and sisters
in the Bonavista Congregation
send you their love and greetings!
Earlier, we shared a preview
of this year’s “Pursue Peace”!
Regional Convention.
Now we’d like to give you a glimpse
of the convention’s feature Bible drama:
Jehovah Guides Us in the Way of Peace.
There is a God in the heavens
who is a Revealer of secrets,
and he has made known
to King Nebuchadnezzar
what is to happen
in the final part of the days.
The divine dream
that Daniel interprets
for King Nebuchadnezzar
constitutes a prophecy
crucial for the lasting peace of mankind.
Jehovah knows the course of history
centuries, even millenniums, in advance.
And as the toes of the feet
were partly of iron and partly of clay,
so the kingdom will be partly strong
and partly fragile.
History has shown us how every type
of human government imaginable has failed.
It’s only Jehovah who has the ability
to guide humans to real, lasting peace.
He has led his people in the past.
So when he prophesies
that he’ll lead his people to real,
lasting peace in the future,
this isn’t a prediction; it’s a guarantee!
The peace we seek
is certain under God’s Kingdom.
I’d like to share one more reason
to be excited about the convention.
It’s my pleasure to announce
that we’ll conclude the convention
with a new original song.
The song and lyrics are now available
on jw.org.
The Governing Body requests that all of us
practice the new song.
And if someone needs help
to download the song,
please give them a hand
and practice with them.
Then together we’ll sing out
with all of our hearts
to Jehovah’s praise.
As we conclude this month’s program,
please know that we sincerely love
and appreciate each one of you.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.